
        ,Ús%$%s¿,      
       Ú$$7"^"?$$L     
      i$$',d$b,'$$;  
yyyyyyyy$ $$$$$ $$l    project "split the net"
^^""ýýý"' '%$%',$$F    by free_hunter 
             ,s$$?;,_             __,,__                          
             '?$'j$$$$%syyyÚÚÚÚy¸$ýý""^"ý
                ^ý$$$ýý"^             


	The purpose of the given project is to show a theoretical
	opportunity to divide the Internet on various untied with
	each other parts :) To understand how it is possible, and
	for understanding  of  how Internet at  a global level is
        arranged, here is a little  theoretical introduction from
	one of curriculum  on telecommunication technologies [1]:


			    
        --------------------------------------------------------

                                  BGP protocol


 Its task of external routing. 

 Considered  on this level,Internet represents a set of the autonomous systems
 (AS) arbitrarily connected among themselves. The internal structure of indep-
 endent systems is latent, addresses of  the IP-networks  making AS  are  only
 known.

 Internet   it   is  organized  as  a  set  of  the  autonomous  systems  (AS)
 interconnected  among themselves - meaning a big enough group of IP networks,
 usually  interconnected between each other,and to the territorial attribute -
 being  controlled  by  the  common  administration  group and  having  common
 politics of rounting under the attitude to all other networks. These AS, from
 positions of routing, also refer to 'region'. Internally AS uses protocols of
 between-regional  routing (Interior Gateway Protocols - IGP),  such  as OSPF,
 IGRP,  RIP,  etc.,  and  between AS'es - protocols of inter-regional  routing
 (Exterior  Gateway  Protocols  -  EGP)  are  used.  The first  inter-regional
 protocol,  continuing  in  limited scale to be used in Internet, has received
 the  same  name, as whole class of routing protocols - EGP, being as a matter
 of fact the protocol of approachibility.

 Autonomous   systems    incorporate   with  the  help  of  boundary  routers.
 Communications  between   routers  can have a different  physical nature: for
 example,  it  can  be  Ethernet network, which has boundary routers connected
 representing  different  autonomous  systems,  or, for example, the allocated
 channel such as "point-to-point" between two routers and etc.

 Depending  of  the location in the the Internet AS can be a stub (e.g: having
 communication  only  with  one  AS), or multihomed (e.g: having communication
 with  several  AS'es).  If the administrative policy of AS allows transfer of
 network  traffic  which  belongs  to  others  AS,  then  such AS can be named
 transit.

 Boundary  router  informs  connected  with him another boundary routers, what
 networks  of  autonomous  systems are achievable through him. The exchange of
 the  similar  information  allows  boundary  routers to bring in the table of
 routes   records about  the networks which  are taking place in others AS. If
 necessary  this  information  is  then   distributed   inside the independent
 system  with  the help of  protocols of  internal routing  (see, for example,
 external routes in OSPF) to provide external connectivity with the the AS.

 A  task  of  this  paragraph  is  discussion of the protocol exchange routing
 information between boundary routers.

 Basic difference of  external routing  from internal is presence of a routing
 policy,  where  such things as economical situation and political reasons are
 being  counted  on.  This  (economical and political reasons) do not allow to
 adapt  under a task of external routing any protocols of internal routing, by
 having  them applied to the graph of autonomous systems as earlier they  were
 applied  to   the  graph  of  simple networks. For  the same  reason existing
 approaches   -   distance-vector  and  conditions  of  communications  -  are
 unsuitable for solving external routing tasks.

 For  the  decision  of  a  task  of  external routing, a BGP protocol (Border
 Gateway  Protocol)  was   developed.   Current   version of this protocol has
 number  4  and  an appropriate standards: RFC-1771, 1772. Generally speaking,
 circuit  of  work  that BGP does is: BGP-routers of neightboor AS, after they
 have  decided  to exchange routing information, establish BGP connection with
 BGP routers in required AS , after which they become BGP-peers.

 Further BGP uses the approach under the name 'path vector', being development
 of   the   distance-vector   approach.   BGP-neighbours  dispatch  (announce,
 advertise)  each other vectors of ways (path vectors). The vector of ways, as
 against  a  vector of distances, contains not simply the address of a network
 and  distance  up  to  her,and  the  address  of  a  network  and the list of
 attributes  (path attributes), describing various characteristics of  a route
 from  the router-sender in the specified network.Further for brevity we shall
 name  a  data set, consisting of the address of a network and attributes of a
 way up to this network, a route in the given network.

 The  data  contained  in attributes  of a way, must be enough for the router-
 addressee,  that  after  being analysed from the viewpoint of a policy of the
 AS,  it could make the decision on an acceptability or unacceptability of the
 received route.

 For   example,  the  most  important  attribute of a route is AS_PATH - which
 lists  a  numbers  of  AS'es  through  which  datagram  should  pass to reach
 specified destination network. Attribute AS_PATH can be used for:


 detection of cycles - if number the same AS meets in AS_PATH twice;

 calculations  of  the  metrics  in  a route - the metrics in this case is the
 number the AS which need to be crossed;

 applications  of  a  routing policy - if AS_PATH contains AS numbers that are
 unacceptable  by  some  of routers configuration, such route is automatically
 excluded.

 It  is obvious, that BGP-routers that belong to one AS, also should  exchange
 among   themselves   the  routing   information.  It  is  necessary  for  the
 coordinated selection of  external  routes according to a policy given AS and
 for  transfer  of transit routes through independent system. Such exchange is
 made also under BGP  protocol, which in  this case  frequently refers to IBGP
 (Internal BGP), (accordingly, the protocol of an exchange  between routers in
 different AS is designated by routes EBGP - External BGP).

 Difference  of IBGP from  EBGP is, that at the announcement of a route to the
 BGP-  neighbour  who  is belongs to same AS, router should not add in AS_PATH
 number   of  his  own  AS.  Really,  if  number  of AS will be added, and the
 neighbour announces  this route further (again with addition of number of the
 same  the  AS)  same  AS  it will be listed AS_PATH twice, that can lead to a
 routing loops.

 This  obvious   rule  entails  interesting consequence: that to avoid cycles,
 router  can not announce IBGP route received through another IBGP connection,
 because  there  are no ways to determine routing loops at the announcement of
 BGP-routes inside one AS.

 Consequence   of   this   consequence   is   necessity  full  the  column  of
 IBGP-connecti-  ons  between boundary routers one independent system: that is
 each  pair  routers  should  establish  among themselves connection with IBGP
 protocol.Thus there is a problem of the big number of connections (about N*N,
 where  N-number  BGP-routers in the AS).  Various decisions  are  applied  to
 reduction  of  number  of  con-  nections:  splitting  the  AS on subsystems,
 application of servers of the routing information etc.

 The   server   of   the  routing  information  (analogue  of  allocated  OSPF
 router),serving   group  of  BGP-routers,  works very simply:  he  accepts  a
 route  from  one  participant  of   group   and  dispatches him to all rests.
 Thus, participants of group do not have necessity to establish BGP-connection
 in  pairs;  instead  of it each participant establishes one connection with a
 server.  Group  of  routers can be, for example, all BGP-routers in the given
 AS,  however  routing  servers  can  be  applied  to  reduction  of number of
 connections  as  well  on  external  BGP-connections  - in a case when in one
 physical  network contains much BGP-routers  from various AS (for example, in
 a point of an exchange of the traffic between providers).

 Especially  it  is  necessary  to  note,  that  the  route-server serves only
 announcements of routes, instead of the traffic on these routes.

 It  is  obvious, that the route-server is not router. That is generally  unit
 on   which  module  BGP  works,  it   is  no  necessary  router. In technical
 documentation this fact  is emphasized by that for a  designation of BGP-unit
 term BGP-speaker (not router) is used.

 Path Attributes:
 
 Below the basic attributes of a way determined for BGP protocol.


 ORIGIN

 ORIGIN (type 1) - the obligatory attribute indicating a source of the
                  information on a route are listed: 

   0 - IGP (the information on approachibility of a network is received from 
            the report of internal routing or it is entered by the manager) 
   1 - EGP (the information on approachibility of a network is imported from 
            out-of-date report EGP) 
   2 - INCOMPLETE (the information is received by other way)


 Attribute  ORIGIN  is  inserted  router  which generates the information on a
 route  and  at  the   subsequent   announce a route others  routers does  not
 change.  The  attribute  actually   defines   reliability of a  source of the
 information on a route (the most reliable ORIGIN=0).



 AS_PATH

 AS_PATH   (type  2)  -  the  obligatory  attribute  containing  the  list  of
 independent  systems  through  which  should  pass datagramm for a way to the
 network  specified  in a route. AS_PATH represents alternation of segments of
 two types:

 AS_SEQUENCE - the ordered list the AS 
 AS_SET  -  many  AS  (the  last  can  arise at agregation several routes with
 similar but not identical AS_PATH in one general route).

 Each  BGP-unit   at  anonce  a  route  (except  for IBGP-connections) adds in
 AS_PATH  number of the AS. Probably (depending on a policy) numbers of others
 AS in addition are added.


 NEXT_HOP

 NEXT_HOP  (type  3)  -  the  obligatory  attribute  indicating the address of
 following  BGP-router's  for  a way to a declared network can coincide or not
 coincide with the address of BGP-unit, anonce a  route. Specified in NEXT_HOP
 router  it  should  be  achievable  for the addressee of the given  route. By
 transfer of a route on IBGP NEXT_HOP does not vary.


          ------------------------------------------------------------
    
 So, global routing in internet is carried out by BGP. BGP doing communication
 beetwen various AS. Actually therefore internet is considered not centralized
 and capable to stand up after nuclear  attack  on any  of  him part(on USA of
 couse ;) ). But not the fact that he will escape after experimental  jerk  of
 researchers in this direction ;)

 BGP the protocol uses identification, so, direct  interaction  with  boundary
 routers will not bring results,it is necessary to know magic word,as minimum.
 Another thing, for transport BGP protocol uses TCP protocol,that makes rather
 difficult to spoof of the data transmitted  beetween  BGP  routers.  However,
 some theoretical variants of influence on BGP protocol are possible.

 The first, it just powerful DDoS attack on a network with BGP router.An exam-
 ple,recent attack on ripn - the European network coordination centre. As they
 inform, their`s BGP connections was reseting, and routing to some systems was
 reconstructed, also some areas became inaccessable.

 The  second,  most  interesting way, its use protocol EGP, which not have the
 identification,  however  understanding  by  BGP routers. EGP protocol is the
 father  BGP  protocol  family, used earlier in the basic skeleton of arpanet,
 for  check  accessable  of  other  sites  in network, without additional data
 brought  in BGP, such as vectors of ways. Thus, it is possible to use him for
 updating the data in the routing table of BGP, and also, probably to announce
 for another boundary routers the information necessary to us. For realization
 of  this  way, it is enough to send egp a packet (egp does not use tcp or udp
 for  transportation,  he enters into the tcp/ip stack  alongside with tcp/udp
 and  also  with  icmp/igmp/igrp  etc.).  Next,  if BGP router understands egp
 protocol,  all  will  be ok, if else we shall receive the message 'icmp proto
 unreachable',  that  speaks what handler of the given protocol not registered
 in system.

 The  third,the  most  elementary  and  reliable  in realization, and the most
 difficult  in  implementation  - to have the control on system working as bgp
 router, it is usual, cisco :)

 Next, was use in ADMbgp(as i think).Idea is simple,BGP have various versions,
 current  version 4. And in BGP protocol was designed a special message, which
 allow  to  change  this  communication session from current version, to lower
 version,for  OLD  capabilities  ;) . So, we have posibilty change from secure
 version,  to unsecure, what not have authentication ;) And do with router all
 what we want ;) But, after use ADMbgp on wide range, this atack was closed on
 all;) routers.

 Essentially,  these  methods  or their combination it is possible to impose a
 false  route(s)  for  AS. Thus, as result, split (to cut off) the AS from the
 others, or from another ASs. Change information in several ten`s of multiport
 transit  AS can result to global accidents:). For example, divisions internet
 network, on some or some ten`s various networks consisting of various numbers
 of  AS:) Switch-off the one or some countries from the internet in principle.
 Or  redirect  the     traffic   of  transit   AS,   what   serving   gigabyte
 transatlantic  channels,  on  small-scale  regional   AS   ;)   Also,  if  do
 correct  calculation,  it   is   possible  to create avalanche  effect  when,
 traffic   redirected   of  transit   AS   on another, not intended  for  this
 purpose  AS. AS channels are overloaded,  and  she(AS)  also  transfers   the
 incorrect   information  in others  AS,  in  consequence  of that, after  her
 are    overloaded    with   the  traffic    and   others  AS.  In  a  result,
 missconfiguration of one AS, takes off a big piece AS from a global network.


 Besides  supervising  of  routing AS, it will be possible to create so-called
 "black  holes"  -  areas of address space, seens and normal routed within the
 limits  of given AS, but invisible, or indicating completely another internet
 area,  in  the  other internet areas. It is very useful for hide of malicious
 actions;)   or  to  fraud  of  various  autorize  systems,that  based  on  ip
 address(ses) (for example, banner network systems , counters etc.).

 For   finding-out  of  concrete  structure  of  routing  within the limits of
 network  area   ,  quantity  of  AS,  their interaction etc., exist very good
 whois-like  services  that  giving us maximum information, like European NCC,
 www.ripn.net  :)   Where, it is possible to look what address blocks assigned
 with that AS or another  AS, and have other helpful information. Except that,
 in  "plain"  whois  services,  sometimes,  it is possible to find interesting
 information such as in what AS lies this ip range.


 Unfortunately  (fortunately?;)  the given information only theoretical,but in
 my opinion rather worthy for research. It  probable, that in x25zine4 we will
 be have many practical results under this project:) However, read world-news,
 probably practical results will be there ;)

		Be clever ! [3]			
		    			        free_hunt
			    

 links: 
    
 [1] http://athena.vvsu.ru/net/book/index.html (rus)
 telecommunication technologies (Network TCP/IP) the manual (c) Maxim Mamaev.
                                         
 [2] http://www.osp.ru/os/1999/11-12/021_print.htm (rus)
 internet routing protocols (c) Vladimir Shcherbo 

 [3] http://lib.ru/ZHURNAL/luden.txt (rus)
 The story "Real virtuality"
