
        ,⁄s%$%sø,      
       ⁄$$7"^"?$$L     
      i$$',d$b,'$$;  
yyyyyyyy$ $$$$$ $$l    Away noodles !
^^""˝˝˝"' '%$%',$$F    by rost
             ,s$$?;,_             __,,__                          
             '?$'j$$$$%syyy⁄⁄⁄⁄y∏$˝˝""^"˝
                ^˝$$$˝˝"^             


 Despite  of  all  the big availability and a wide circulation of the allocated
 lines, dialup is not so fast surrender as many predicted. However low speed of
 data  transmission,  and  basically  on  fault  of a telephone system strongly
 breaks off.

 The  purpose of the given small review is to collect in a heap, to make, so to
 say,  compilation  of  experience  of  mankind  in struggle for improvement of
 quality of modem connection, instead of to invent that that absolutely new (as
 it  simply  not  so  probably  in  narrow frameworks of a wire telephony). The
 author  does  not  apply on copyright all given circuits, in the majority they
 are taken from different sources, I do not remember already from what.

 So  -  the main enemy - poor quality of native telephone systems. As is known,
 in  multicomponent  systems quality is defined by the worse part. Let's try to
 consider these parts more in detail and to decide as we can improve them.

 Unfortunately  the  interval  from  automatic  telephone  exchange  up to your
 distributive  panel does not give in to positive changes, as well as a head of
 the head of your telephone company, and is a pity. For this reason till now in
 territory  of  the  former  USSR of full analog telephone exchanges with awful
 quality, besides unreliable, noisy, suxx ...

 We  shall try to improve parts from panel up to the modem. First of all - AWAY
 NOODLES!  First  from  ears, then these shaky postings,  not with it is simple
 them  so have nicknamed. To replace them on SHVPT (rus kind of wire decalared)
 or  something  similar  it is no expensive, and work of the modem begins realy
 good.  All  contacts it is necessary certainly resoldering, not any twistings.
 If  we  already  also  have dared to replace a wire then distributing we shall
 make  on  competent.  We  pull  a  wire  all over again to the modem, and then
 already is farther - to phones.


 I.e.  from  the beginning the signal goes in input LINE of the modem, and from
 output  PHONE  he  goes  to  the  rests devices. It is necessary to check up -
 whether  disconnects the modem output PHONE at the moment of connection. If is
 not  present  -  it is necessary to put the toggle - switch after output PHONE
 and  to disconnect phones (or what there at you?) during using the modem. What
 for?  It  will relieve target cascades of the modem of superfluous loading. If
 on the modem only a telephone input, so the switch should be put on the socket
 in  front  of the modem. Tumbler will switch the modem/phone. And already from
 this socket we shall pull two wires - one to the modem, another to phones.


                        \bonus\circuits\circuit1.png 	


 At  due  skill in management of a soldering iron it is possible to create such
 circuit automatic telephone blockirator's:

                        
                        \bonus\circuits\circuit2.png 	


 The  majority  of  similar  circuits  on dinistors (rus kind of transistor) or
 tiristors  (too kind of transistor), have advantage as simplicity, but have as
 well  minuses, such as: resistance at switching, "ringout" on parallel devices
 and is usual with observance of polarity. The delay of switching, at use given
 circuits, makes approximately near 1 sec, due to use of the 'relay' resistance
 of  connection  is  reduced  also, observance of polarity is not required. The
 relay  is  better  for applying 'gercon' (because of the noiselessness) on 5-7
 volt,  but  probably it is required adjustment of the resistor, and in quality
 diod the bridge it is possible to use 4 diodes KD522B.


 Now  we  shall try to amplification and then to filter a signal. The amplifier
 would  be more logical to establish in distributive panel, but there he can to
 someone  it  is  not pleasant, or on the contrary very much it is pleasant, in
 general  will  cause  a  heightened interest and will disappear. The exit from
 this  situation  arises  -  to arrange the amplifier, and at the same time and
 blockirator with the filter in one case.


 For  the beginning we shall make a power unit for the amplifier. We shall take
 advantage of that in a telephone system already there is a constant voltage in
 60  volt. We need two polar power supply by a voltage of 15 volt. Easy to make
 it under such circuit:


                        \bonus\circuits\circuit3.png 	


 The  microcircuit  can  be  applied  and another, for example 7915, only it is
 necessary  to  take  into  account  that  she  stabilizes  a negative voltage,
 accordingly  it is necessary to change and the circuit. Disseminating capacity
 on  a  microcircuit  in  this case not big, it is possible to do without and a
 radiator.  At  replacement  by other microcircuit pay attention to the maximal
 entrance  voltage  of  the  given  microcircuit. It should be not less than 30
 volt.  Condensers  anyone  electrolits,  a  voltage  not less than 16 volt, is
 better  25.  Resistors 50...150 kom (0,25Vt). Diod bridge - as in the previous
 circuit.


 The  circuit  of  the  amplifier  present on \bonus\circuits\circuit4.png. She
 represents  the amplifier with a positive feedback. It is established on phone
 line  in  parallel  the  modem.  amplification  in  1,5.  2 times. Operational
 amplifier  DA1  it  is  possible to use anyone, taking into account purpose of
 conclusions. It was used 553UD2 in plastic DIP.

   L1 - Any throttle on 200. 400uH. It was used DP1, 2-400.
   R1 - Adjusts amplification.
   VS1, VS2 - symmetric stabilitrons on 20V for protection DA1. 
              Were applied 2 consistently connected KC210B.
  Condenser S3 is included by plus on the ground. 


 Adjustment:

 If  there  is  an oscillograph, at the included feed and connected phone lines
 (the tube is lifted!) presence of generation on a conclusion 10 DA1 is checked
 at  extreme left under the circuit position of cursor R1. Gradually increasing
 R1  to  achieve  loss  of  generation.  This  position  R1 corresponds to some
 threshold  level  of  amplification.  For  stability to add 5..20 % to current
 value R1.

 All  these  operations  can be done without an oscillograph on hearing, having
 connected  the  parallel device, but it will be necessary to take into account
 additional loading in a line. Final position R2 - at concrete connecting.

 The  important remark: At the put tube the circuit generates a voice-frequency
 signal  in  a line. Therefore it is desirable to disconnect a feed (to provide
 the switch) when the tube is put.

 If  to you laziness work with all it it is possible to get the ready amplifier
 executed in the telephone socket, such now are sold rather cheaply - about 150
 roubles  (russian  many  ;) ). That basically it is equal to the cost price of
 the  given  circuit,  taking  into account expenditures of labour. However any
 experience :)

 Let's proceed to creation of the filter. Some circuits:


 1. \bonus\circuits\circuit5.png 	


 C1: 1-1.5 mkF x 200V 
 R1: 10 kom (rough adjustment)
 R2: 2 whom (exact adjustment)
 R3: 100 Om x 0.25W 

 In  break  of  a circuit between C1 and a line it is possible to establish the
 switch if necessary to maintain your system without use filters.


 2. \bonus\circuits\circuit6.png 	


 The circuit is primitive filter of average frequencies. The lightdiod displays
 connection  of  the  modem  to  a  telephone  line.  The circuit freely can be
 arranged  in  the  case  for  the telephone socket, and lightdiod fastens from
 above  on glue in an aperture of the case. As adjustment of resistor Rn can be
 demanded,  he  limits  a  voltage  through  lightdiod  and  in part influences
 parameters  of  the  filter  -  depends  on  type  of  the modem and automatic
 telephone exchange, average value near 100Æ¨. At connection it is necessary to
 observe polarity!


 3. \bonus\circuits\circuit7.png 	


 There  are  still  more many circuits with use of coils of inductance. I to do
 make  them  did  not  try,  if to whom it is interesting, can find the circuit
 independently. Or to calculate, that it is more interesting.


 If  and  to  be  engaged with coils of inductance i.e. if you count yourselves
 elit  phreak  man  it is possible to climb in the modem. The matter is that on
 inputs  of  the  majority of modems there is a transformer sharing a signal on
 variable/constant  currents.  His quality usually happens very low, especially
 it  concerns  modems  more  cheaply 50$. It is possible to buy good and to put
 instead of yours, but he costs about 10$ and not always he still can be found.

 We shall make his:

 It  is  required  2  armored  cups  from  ferrite  of mark å2000çå1, å2000çå2,
 å2000çå3  (the  best variant), external diameter 32 mm, the plastic coil - the
 core  under  them  and  wire  PEL  0.16 (it is possible 0.15, but it turns out
 hardly worse) and an insulating tape dark blue (!!) colors.


 Manufacturing: 
  
 Attention!  All  parameters are given at the rate of overall dimensions of the
 core! On the core the initial winding is reeled up - 450 coils of a wire, then
 2  times  is  wound  by an insulating tape (that the distance between windings
 made  ~0.8  mm). Then it is wound 500 coils of a secondary winding. From above
 again it is rolled up by an insulating tape that the wire was not unwound. The
 coil  -  the core is inserted into armored cups - the product is ready. Way of
 connection of half and payments gets out proceeding from features of a payment
 of  the  modem. If there is an opportunity to drill payment - drill and fasten
 the  screw. Only do not overlook cardboard linings between the transformer and
 a  payment  that  cups  have  not bursted. If to drill it is impossible, stick
 together  cups  the  supermoment, and a method of fastening to a payment think
 out.  Connection  very simple - an initial winding to a line, secondary to the
 analog-digital converter.

 
 Perhaps and all basic improvements which can be made. good luck.
